Among the passengers travelling home by train from Florence there was a certain Miss Bradley.
I only noticed her when passing down the corridor, because of her really remarkable plainness. She was rather a large, awkward woman of about thirty-five with a big, red nose, and large spectacles.
Later on, when I went to the dining-car, Miss Bradley was already seated, and the attendant placed me opposite her.
I think we may have exchanged half a dozen words at dinner, when passing one another the sugar or the bread. But they were certainly all we exchanged, and after we left the dining-car, I did not see Miss Bradley again until we reached Calais Maritime.
And then our acquaintance really began, and it began entirely on my initiative. There were plenty of porters, and I called one without difficulty from the window of the train. But as I got off, I saw Miss Bradley standing on the platform with two large very old suit-cases. The porters were passing her by.
I am quite sure that had she been an even slightly attractive woman, I should not have gone up to her, but she was so ugly, and looked so helpless that I approached her, and said: "My porter has a barrow. Would you like him to put your cases on it too?" Miss Bradley turned and looked at me.
"Oh — thank you. It is very kind of you."
My porter, without great enthusiasm, added her luggage to mine; and in a few minutes we found ourselves on board the Channel ferry.
Before the boat had been under way for ten minutes, I realized that Miss Bradley was a remarkable bore. Shyly and hesitantly she kept on talking about nothing, and made no remark worth taking notice of.
I learned that she had been in Italy a fortnight, visiting her sister who was married to an Italian. She had never been out of England before.
I did not look forward to travelling to London with her for another four hours, so excusing myself I went along to the booking-office on board the boat and booked myself a seat on the Golden Arrow.
Miss Bradley was travelling by the ordinary boat train, so this would mean that we should part at Dover.
At Dover I hired one of the crew to carry our luggage.
Normally, passengers for the Golden Arrow are dealt with by the customs first, as the train leaves twenty minutes before the ordinary boat train. When the boy asked if we were going on the Golden Arrow, I hesitated and then said "Yes".
It was too difficult to explain that one of us was and one of us wasn't, and then it would get Miss Bradley through the customs quickly.
As we went towards the Customs Hall, I explained carefully to her that my train left before hers, but that I would see her through the customs; the boy would then take the luggage to our trains, and she could sit comfortably in hers till it left. Miss Bradley said, "Oh, thank you very much."
The boy, of course, had put our suit-cases together on the counter, and Miss Bradley and I went and stood before them. In due course the customs examiner reached us, looked at the four suitcases in that human X-ray manner which customs examiners must practise night and morning, and said, "This is all yours?"
I was not quite sure whether he was speaking to me, or me and Miss Bradley. So I replied, "Well — mine and this lady's".
The examiner said, "But you're together?"
"For the moment," I said rather foolishly, smiling at Miss Bradley.
"Yes," said the customs man patiently. "But are you travelling together? Is this your joint luggage?"
"Well, no. Not exactly. We're just sharing a porter "
I pointed my cases out. I had nothing to declare, and declared it. Without asking me to open them, the examiner chalked the cases and then, instead of moving to my left and dealing with Miss Bradley, moved to the right, and began X-raying somebody else's luggage.
The boy took my cases off the counter. I hesitated for a moment, but then decided it was no use waiting for Miss Bradley since we were about to part, so I said:
"Well, I'll say good-bye now, and go and find my train. I expect the examiner'll come back and do you next. The porter will stay and bring our luggage up to the trains when you're through. Good-bye."
Miss Bradley said, "Oh... good-bye and thank you so much." We shook hands and I left.
I found my seat in the Golden Arrow and began to read.
It must have been about twenty minutes later that I suddenly realized the train was due to leave in five minutes and that the porter had not yet brought my luggage. I was just going to look for him when he appeared, breathing heavily, with my suit-cases. I asked him rather what he had been doing.
"The lady is still there," said the boy, "and will be for some time, I think. They are going through her things properly."
"But why?"
"Well, they'd found forty watches when I came away, and that was only the start, so I thought maybe you wouldn't want me to wait."
I have often wondered whether, when Miss Bradley stood so helplessly on the platform at Calais, she had already chosen me as the person to come to her rescue, or whether she was just sure that somebody would.
Looking back, I think, she must have chosen me. I am fairly sure of that though exactly how, I have never been clear. I am quite sure she never made the slightest effort to make my acquaintance.

It was early in November and the Canadian winter was already here. I sat in my chair, just after breakfast, and looked through the one window of our shanty, from which I could see the prairie and the end of our cowshed. Suddenly a large gray animal dashed across the prairie into the cowshed, and a smaller black and white animal ran after it.

"A wolf!" I cried, and seizing a gun, ran out to help the dog. But before I could get there, they were out of the cowshed and on the prairie again. The wolf turned to attack (lie dog, and the dog, our neighbour's collie, ran about, trying to bite the wolf. I fired a few shots, which did not hit the wolf, and both animals dashed off across the prairie again. Again the wolf turned, ready to fight. The dog seized the wolf by the leg, but retreated to avoid the wolf's teeth. This scene was repealed many times. The dog each time tried to get nearer to his master's house, while the wolf did all he could to run away toward the wood. I followed, and at last overtook them. The dog, now seeing that he had help, seized the wolf by the throat, and did not let go. It was now easy for me to come near them and shoot the wolf in the head.

When the dog saw that his enemy was dead, he at once set out for his master's house four miles across the snow. As he ran, he left a trail of blood on the snow from his many wounds, but he did not stop. I learned about this wonderful dog from his master, and wanted to buy him at any price, but the reply of his owner was: "Why don't you try to buy one of the children?" So I could do nothing. But he told me to wait until there was a puppy, the collie's son, and I had to be satisfied with that.

II


I looked at my new puppy, — a ball of black fur with a very white ring round his muzzle. I named him Bingo, the name of a dog in an old English story.

The rest of that winter Bingo spent in our shanty, eating much and growing bigger each day. When the spring came, I began his education. He learned to go and look for our old yellow cow that pastured on the prairie, and to drive her back to the cowshed safely.

He became very fond of doing this, and nothing pleased him more than an order to go and fetch the cow. He would dash away, barking with pleasure. In a short time he would return, driving the cow before him. And he gave her no peace until she was safe in a corner of the stable.

Soon he grew so fond of doing this that he began to bring the cow home even without an order. At last not once or twice, but a dozen times a day he went out and drove the cow home to the stable. It seemed that whenever he wanted a little exercise or had some free time, he dashed out across the prairie and a few minutes later returned, driving the unhappy cow before him. The cow grew thin and gave less milk. She watched nervously for that dog, whom she hated, and was afraid to go out to pasture.

This was too much, and I had to force Bingo to give up his pleasure altogether. He could not understand it at all and, in disgust, now stayed all day with the horses, near their stable. The cattle belonged to me, and the horses, to my brother, and though I did not see my dog often now, yet both of us felt that the bond between man and dog is one that lasts as long as life.

Not long after that Bingo acted as cowherd again, but that was the last time. In autumn of the same year there was a prize at the Annual Animal Fair for the best dog in training. I entered Bingo. Early on the day of the Fair I drove the cow to the prairie. When the time came, I pointed to the cow and gave Bingo the order, — "Go and fetch the cow." Of course, I thought he would bring her to me at the judge's stand. But when my cow saw Bingo running toward her, she knew that her only hope for safety was to get into her stable, and Bingo was sure that it was his duty to drive her in that direction as quickly as possible. They dashed across the prairie toward their home two miles away until they disappeared in the distance. I did not receive the prize.

III


It is beautiful and wonderful how a man and his dog become attached to one another. A Canadian writer tells us about an Indian tribe, in the Far North, which had a terrible feud over a dog that belonged to one of the Indians and was killed by his neighbour. The feud lasted many years and half of the tribe perished.

Here is another example. One of my neighbours had a dog which he thought was the best in the world. I loved my neighbour, so I loved his dog. One day poor Tan, the dog, crawled home terribly wounded and died near the door of his master's house. His master and I swore to find the murderer. We even offered a reward to any one who could find the murderer.

Then something happened that made me change my mind. Bingo did not live with me now. He lived now with a neighbour of mine, Gordon Wright, who had a farm a short distance from us. One day I went to see him. His son, knowing that I wanted to find the murderer, took me aside and whispered, in a tragic voice: "It was Bingo who did it."

My love for Bingo returned, and I must say that I did everything I could now not to find the murderer.

"Love me, love my dog," is an old and true saying. Although Bingo did not live with me the feeling that he was my dog did not die. Soon Bingo took part in another incident that illustrates the old saying.

Old Mr. Gordon and Mr. Oliver were close neighbours and friends. They made a contract to cut wood, and they worked together all winter cutting wood. Then Oliver's old horse died, and he decided that he could use the dead horse to catch wolves with. So he dragged the body out on the prairie and put some poison baits for wolves around it.

Alas! Bingo, like his wild relations the wolves, was very fond of dead horse meat. That night, with Oliver's dog Curley, he went to the dead body of the horse. Curley feasted, but Bingo kept off the wolves and ate less. The tracks in the snow told the story of the feast. Soon after he ate the poison baits, Curley was in terrible pains. Both dogs returned home, where Curley, in great agony, died at Oliver's feet.

Oliver refused to listen to any explanation that it was an accident. The contract to cut w7ood that Gordon and Oliver made was over, and to this day the two men are enemies.

As to Bingo, many months passed before he recovered from the poison. We really believed that he would never recover, but he did. When the spring came, he was as well and as strong as ever.

IV


Some lime after that I had to leave Canada on business. When I returned two years later, Bingo was still with old Gordon Wright's family. I thought he forgot me, but it was not so.

One day, early in the winter, he disappeared for forty-eight hours. Then he came home, crawling, to Gordon's house, with a wolf-trap and a heavy log on one foot. The foot was frozen hard. He did not allow any one to come near him to help him. Then I, now a stranger, bent down and took the trap with one hand and his leg with the other. At once he seized my hand in his teeth. I did not move, and said, "Bingo, don't you know me?" He at once let go my hand, although he whined a good deal while I removed the trap. He still recognized me as his master in spite of my long absence. I, in my turn, felt that he was my dog.

During the rest of the winter he was lame, and two of his toes dropped off. But before the warm weather came, his strength returned, so that to a stranger, there was no mark of his terrible experience in the steel trap.

V


During that same winter I caught many wolves and foxes in the traps I set. Wolf-traps are made of heavy steel and have two very powerful springs. I set four traps around a bait that I put deep in the ground. Then I fastened the bait to logs which I carefully covered with cotton and fine sand.

A prairie wolf, who was not so lucky as Bingo, fell into one of the traps, and I killed him. Then I began to set the trap again. When everything was finished, I threw the trap-wrench toward my horse, and then, seeing some fine sand close by, I stretched out my hand for it.

But that fine sand was on the next wolf-trap, and in a moment I was a prisoner. Although I was not wounded, for the traps have no teeth and my thick gloves protected me, my hand was in the trap, and I could not get it out. I tried to reach the trap-wrench with my foot. I strained and strained, but could not reach it. Then I tried to turn round, but forgot about the other trap till there was a sharp snap and the iron jaws of trap Number 3 closed on my left foot.

All my struggles were in vain, and I lay on the ground helpless. What will become of me now? I thought. The cold weather was over, so that I could not freeze to death here. But no one knew where I was, and no one came to this place except woodcutters in winter. I must free myself! If I can't free myself, wolves will eat me or I shall die of cold and hunger!

As I lay there the red sun went down over the plain and a little shorelark sang his evening song quite close by. Now sharp pains crept up my arm, and I was terribly cold. Then I thought of the comfortable supper-table at Gordon's house. Oh, now they are just sitting down to supper! My horse stood as I left him, patiently waiting to take me home. When I called, he looked at me. "If he goes home," I said to myself, "the empty saddle will tell them what happened, and they will come and save me." But he did not move. He was a faithful animal, and waited hour after hour while I lay here, dying of cold and hunger.

Then a new thought came to me. This is how a wolf feels when he falls into a trap! Oh, now I shall pay for the misery I have caused! Slowly it began to grow dark. A prairie wolf howled, then another howled, and another. They called, and then I realized that dark forms were near me. The horse saw them first, and the terrified sound he made drove them back, but they returned and sat nearer. Soon one of them crawled up close to the body of the dead wolf near the trap. I shouted and he retreated. But the wolf came back and soon, with two or three others, they dragged the body away and all of them tore it to pieces and ate it up in a few minutes.

After that they came nearer and looked at me, and the boldest one smelt my rifle. I shouted and kicked him with my free foot. He retreated. But as I grew weaker, he became bolder, and snarled in my face. Others came up and did the same. Suddenly, out of the darkness, came a roar, and a great black wolf sprang out. The prairie wolves ran off, except the bold one, which the black stranger seized and killed in a few moments. And then, oh horrors, this great animal sprang at me and — Bingo, noble Bingo rubbed himself against me and licked my cold face.

"Bingo —Bingo —old boy — fetch me the trap-wrench!"

He ran off, and returned, dragging the rifle, for he knew only that I wanted something.

"No — Bingo — the trap-wrench!" This time it was my belt, but at last he brought the trap-wrench, and wagged his tail in joy that it was right. I worked with my free hand. After much difficulty, I opened up the trap and my hand was free, and a minute later my foot was free. Bingo brought my horse, while I walked about for some time to bring back the circulation in my body. Then I got on the horse. We went home, with Bingo barking in front. At home they told me that all day he behaved very strangely, and that as soon as it grew dark, he ran to the woods. He reached the spot where I lay in time to set me free and save me from death.

Brave old Bingo — lie was a strange dog. Though his heart was with mo, he passed me the next day and did not even look at me. And to the end he lived the wolfish life - that he loved, and looked for dead horses that he liked so much. He found one again with a poisoned bait. When he felt great pain, he went, not to Gordon's house, but to find me. He reached the door of my shanty, but I was not there. I returned the next day and found him dead in the snow at my door. My dog to the last! It was my help he looked for, and looked for in vain!

Mount Tallac stands high above the other peaks of the Sierra Mountains. It is ten thousand feet above the sea. From the top, looking north, one can see a very large, blue, wonderful lake. On every side there are wonderful colours and things,—pine trees, streams, hills. But Lan Kellyan's keen gray eyes did not notice the beautiful colours on the hills and lake. He was a hunter. His leather clothes, brown face, strong body, and clear gray eyes told us that at once. His hunter's eye looked for and found a trail, and he followed it along the ground. He knew that a big bear and her two little cubs were somewhere close by, for the foot-marks of the animals in the grass were still fresh. Lan's horse also knew that a grizzly family was near, for he sniffed and stepped nervously.

Lan got off his horse and then, following the trail, climbed up a steep bank and there, at the top, fifty yards away, he saw an old grizzly and her two cubs. It was too far for a good shot, but Lan fired at what seemed to be the shoulder. The bear, wounded, sprang up and rushed to the place where the smoke from the gun arose. Lan ran down the bank, jumped on his horse and was off like the wind. But the grizzly ran almost as fast, striking at him but missing each time. A grizzly cannot run with great speed for a long distance, and soon the bear fell behind, and returned to her cubs.

Lan went back to his camp, but returned next day to look for that bear. About a week later he was in a small, deep valley with sides of steep rock when he saw, far off, the old bear with her two cubs. As she stopped to drink at the clear stream, Lan fired. When she heard the shot, the bear turned to her cubs and slapping first one and then the other, she chased them up a tree. Lan's second shot struck her. Wounded and raging, she charged fiercely on the hunter. A third shot struck her in the head and she rolled down the side of the great rocks and lay dead at the bottom of the valley. Lan now went to the tree where the cubs still were. They looked at him with fear as he approached them and when he began to climb the tree, they climbed up higher. One of them began to whine and the other to growl, increasing their cries as he came nearer. He took out a rope, arid making nooses, dragged them to the ground in turn. Then he put them into a bag and rode with them to his camp. There he put a collar on each of them, and chained each to a post. They at once climbed up to the top of their posts. Sitting on the top of the posts, one whined and the other growled. For the first few days they refused to eat, but at last they drank some milk which Lan left for them. In another week they even notified their master whenever they wanted food or drink.

II


Jack and Jill, the hunter named the cubs. Jill had a bad temper. When Lan came to give her food, she climbed up the post and growled and ate the food only after he went away. Jack, however, ran down his post to meet his master, and ate his food at once. In a month Jacky grew so tame that Lan allowed him to run free. He followed his master like a dog, and his funny tricks always amused Lan and the few friends he had in the mountains.

Near the shanty where Lan lived was a meadow, where Lan cut enough hay to feed his two horses during the winter. When the time came to cut the hay, Jack was his daily companion, following close at his heels, or lying on Lan's coat and guarding it from such terrible monsters as squirrels and others. One day Lan found a bee's nest. Jack loved honey, and knew what a bee's nest was; so when Lan said, "Honey — Jacky — honey!" the little bear always ran to the spot quickly. Jacky knew that bees have stings; he therefore approached the nest carefully. Then, when some bees began to come out of the nest, he slapped at them till, one by one, he knocked them down and crushed them.

When he got rid of the last bee in the nest, he ate first the honey, then the grubs and wax, and last of all the bees It was a great feast for him.

Lan's nearest neighbour was Lou Bonamay, a miner. He lived, with his dog, in a shanty about a mile from Lan's shanty. One day, when he came to see Lan, he said, "Lan, bring Jacky and we'll have some fun." He went into the woods and Lan followed him with Jack at his heels.

"There, Jacky, honey — honey!" and Bonamy pointed up a tree to a large wasp's nest. Jacky looked. Certainly those things buzzing up there looked like bees, though he could not understand why the bee's nest had such a strange shape and was in such a place. However, he climbed up the tree. The men waited. Jack reached the branch where the big nest was high over the deep water. He walked along the branch, but very carefully. He took another step forward. What an awful lot of bees! But bees mean honey! So he stepped forward again. The wasps buzzed angrily, and he stepped back. But Bonamy said softly, "Honey — Jacky — honey!"

Jack went slowly, and then waited for a long time till all the bees were back in the nest. Then he moved silently along the branch. When he was just over the nest, he put one little paw over the hole of the nest, and with his other arm seized the nest. Then he jumped from the branch into the stream below, taking with him the nest and the wasps in the nest. As soon as he reached the water, he tore the nest to pieces with his hind feet. The nest floated away down the stream, while the honey-comb lay near the bank of the stream. Jack now swam up to it. Most of the wasps were dead or too wet to be dangerous and Jacky carried the comb to the bank in triumph. There was no honey, of course, but there were lots of fat white grubs which were almost as good. He ate till his paunch looked like a little rubber balloon.

"Now what do you think of that?" said Lan.

"The laugh is on us," answered Bonamy.

III


Jack was now a strong cub. He followed Lan even as far as Bonamy's shanty. Once, as they watched him play, Lan said to his friend, "I'm afraid some one will meet him in the woods one day and shoot him for a wild bear." 

"Then why don't you get those new sheep rings for him?" Bonamy answered.

So it happened that, though Lan was against it, they pierced the cub's ears and decorated him with ear-rings. These were not comfortable, and Jack tried to get rid of them. At last, when he came home one day with a large branch hanging from one ear, Lan removed the branch and the ear-rings too.

At Bonamy's place there was an old sheep whom Jack avoided because he did not like the smell. There was also Bonamy's dog. That was an unpleasant animal who seemed to think it was great fun to bite Jacky's heels and then run away. A joke is a joke, but this dog did not know where to stop and always spoilt Jack's visits to Bonamy's shanty. The only thing he could do, when he saw the dog, was to climb up a tree as fast as he could. Even that did not always help. So very soon Jack decided that it was better to stay at home, and in the future, when Lan went into the path that led to the miner's shanty, the cub said clearly with a look: "No, thank you," and turned back home.

The enemy, however, often came with Bonamy to the hunter's shanty, and there began to tease the little bear again. The dog liked this amusement so much that he learned to come to Lan's shanty by himself to have some fun with Jacky, who was always in terror of the dog. But it all ended very suddenly.

It was a very hot day, and Lan and Lou sat in front of Lan's shanty, smoking. The dog, as usual, chased Jack up a tree, and then lay down to have a nap in the shade of the branches of that tree. Jack was very quiet for a while and then, when he saw that the dog was asleep, he began to move slowly and silently along the branch until he was just over his enemy. Now, taking careful aim, he jumped and landed on the dog's ribs. The dog awoke with a terrible howl, and though he had no broken bones, he could hardly drag himself away. Jacky walked off in triumph. After that the dog paid no more attention to the little bear, and Jacky was happy again.

IV


Jack was funny; Jill was sulky. Lan petted Jack and gave him freedom, but he chained Jill and often punished her, for she had a bad temper. Once, when Lan was away, Jill got free and joined her brother. They broke the door of Lan's little storehouse and ate whatever they liked. What they didn't like — flour, butter and other things — they threw about the ground and rolled in it. When Lan came, he stood at the door, a picture of amazement and anger. Little bears know nothing about pictures, but they understand anger. They knew that something was wrong and that they were in danger. Jill, sulky, tried to hide in a dark corner and looked defiantly at Lan. But Jack held up his sticky little arms to his master, expecting his master to lift him up and pet him as usual, as if he was the best little bear in the world.

Then Jacky began to climb up his master's leg. Lan growled, "I'll break your neck, you little devil." But he did not. He lifted the sticky little bear and petted him, but Jill he chained to her post with a strong chain. Lan Kellyan was in a bad mood. That morning he fell and broke his rifle, and now his provisions were spoilt. In the evening a stranger came to his shanty and Jack amused them both with his funny tricks. When the stranger was ready to leave, he said, "Lan, I'll give you twenty-five dollars for the pair." Lan hesitated, then thought of his spoilt provisions, his broken rifle and his empty pocket, and answered, "Make it fifty and you can have them."

In fifteen minutes the stranger rode away with a little bear in a bag on each side of his horse. Jill was sulky and silent, but Jack whined and that touched Lan's heart. During the next hour Lan was busy. He put his shanty in order, and picked up what was left of his provisions. "After all," he said to himself, "there is still a good deal." Then he walked past the box where Jack used to sleep. How silent it was! Suddenly he jumped on his horse and in two hours he overtook the stranger.

"Say, old man, I did wrong. I don't want to sell those bears. Here's your money back." 

"You're wasting time, if that's what you came for," said the stranger coldly. Jack whined joyfully at the sound of his master's voice.

"Now, look here, man," said Lan, "that little bear is the only companion I have, and we're very fond of each other. I didn't know how much I'll miss him. Take back your fifty, give me Jack and keep Jill."

"If you've five hundred in gold, you can get him," answered the stranger, taking out his gun and pointing it at Lan. "If not, you walk straight to that tree and don't turn, or I'll fire. Now go!"

Lan, who had no gun, had to obey. Little Jack's whining cut Lan to the heart. But he knew the mountaineers too well and did as the stranger told him. The mountaineer and the two little bears were soon out of sight.

At first the man was pleased with his funny bear cubs, but each day they became more troublesome and less amusing to him. The new master was neither gentle nor cultured, and Jack, good-natured little Jack, seemed to understand this. He allowed his new master to put a collar and a chain on him. But Jill fought and bit her master's hand when he tried to put a collar on her. The result was that Jacky was now alone, on a chain, in the yard of the ranch.

V


In the next-eighteen months there was nothing interesting in Jack's life. His little world was a twenty-foot circle around a pole in the, yard of the ranch. There were horses and men in the yard, but they were outside his little circle and he could not see them. He forgot the tricks for which his old master loved him so much, for Jack grew up in chains and with a big flour barrel as his home.

Near the ranch, at the foot of the Sierras, was the ranch hotel. Nature was beautiful here; there were groves of oak trees on the slopes of the hills, golden meadows, forests of pines, flowers and fruit, sun and shade, rivers and brooks. But the men who came here did not see the beauty of the place. They were ignorant and cruel — the lowest of the human race. They were cruel to Jack, and Jack's answer was hate.

It amused them to see him drink beer out of a bottle. The cub liked beer and the men often gave him a bottle. It amused them when Jack pulled out the cork, turned the bottle up between his paws and drank to the last drop. Sometimes there was a dog fight. These cruel men brought their dogs "to try them on the cub." It was pleasant sport to the men and to the dogs until Jack learned how to fight them. In his first fights, he rushed furiously at the nearest dog, but he stopped with a jerk when he came to the end of his chain. Thus another dog could attack him from behind. But in a month or two he changed his method. He learned to sit quietly with his back against his barrel, and watched the noisy dogs around him. He did not move until all the dogs were together in one place quite near him. Then he attacked. He always "got" one or more of them, so the men stopped this kind of sport.

The Fourth of July was near. The owner of the hotel, who was tired of the huge prisoner in the yard, announced that he would celebrate the holiday with a fight between "a fighting bull and a fierce grizzly." The news spread quickly. The owner prepared seats on the roof of the stable at fifty cents each, and seats on wagons full of hay for one dollar each. When the day came, everything was ready. They nailed up the barrel with Jack in it and rolled the barrel to a field with a fence around it. The bull was already there. Cowboys came from far and near, and their girls were with them. Farmers, ranchmen, miners travelled long distances to see the Bull-and-Bear fight. Some bet on the bull and others on the bear.

The bull was in a rage, as the men teased him to make him angry. Then they opened the door of Jack's barrel. They expected Jack to rush out and attack the bull. But he did not move — perhaps because of the great noise and the crowds of people. Those who betted on the bull began to hiss. Now the bull came forward, roaring, until he was within ten feet of the grizzly. Then he turned and ran to the other end of the field. Those who betted on the bear began to shout.

But the crowd wanted a fight. One of the men put some fire crackers into the barrel. Crack! and Jack jumped up. Fizzcrack — c-r-r-r-a-a-c-k, cr-kerk-ck! and Jack in surprise rushed from his barrel into the field. The bull stood in the middle of the field, but when the bear sprang forward, he roared and retreated as far as he could. There were cheers and hisses.

Perhaps the two main characteristics of a grizzly are the quickness with which he makes a plan, and the strength with which he follows his plan. Jack's eyes went round the fence in a second, — found a place which he could climb easily. In three seconds he was there, in two seconds he was over the fence, and in one second he dashed through the frightened crowd and ran to the hills as fast as he could. Women screamed, men shouted, dogs barked. The men rushed to their horses. But the grizzly was already far away, near the river, into which he plunged. The dogs did not dare to do that, and in an hour Jack reached the pine hills. Soon the ranch hotel, with its chains and its cruel human beings, was a thing of the past. That Fourth of July was indeed a great holiday — it was Independence Day for Grizzly Jack.

VI


Ë wounded deer usually goes downhill; a hunted grizzly climbs. Jack knew nothing of that part of the country where he now was, but he wanted to get away from the crowd. So he looked for the hills and climbed and climbed. He could no longer see the plain, but he walked on and on for many hours until he found himself among the highest rocks, the pine trees and the berries. He picked the berries from the low bushes and ate as he traveled. In the afternoon, when the heat of the sun was terrible, he lay down to rest. The night was black when he awoke, but bears are not afraid of the dark, — they fear the day. He walked on as before, higher and higher, and so at last he reached the highest mountains in the region of his native Tallac. Here he stayed, and here he had many experiences that made him stronger, wiser and more cunning. He lived on roots and berries for many weeks. Sometimes he had a great desire for meat.

Jack had no memory for faces, but he had a wonderful memory for smells. One day he smelt sheep. So he went down at night — a clever bear does not travel by day - and the smell led him from the pines on the hills to an open rocky valley. Not far away he saw a strange, bright light. But he knew what that was from his past experiences with men, — it was a fire built by men. The smell of sheep grew stronger at every step, but he saw no sheep. He saw in the valley something that looked like a great gray lake, with many little shining lights like stars. A strange sound came from the lake. Jack came nearer, and then at last so near that he could see the great gray lake. It was a flock of sheep, and the little shining lights were their eyes. The shepherd and his dog lay close by the fire. Jack did not lose time. He at once charged into the mass of sheep, struck down one of them, seized it and climbed up the rocks, back to the mountains. The shepherd leaped to his feet, the dog barked loudly. But Jack was far away. That was Jack's first mutton, but it was not the last.

VII


In the flock of this Mexican shepherd there were three thousand sheep. It is not easy for any one to count three thousand sheep. But the shepherd used a simple device. In an ordinary flock about one sheep in a hundred is a black one. Now, if many sheep get lost, there is almost always a black one among them. So he counts his thirty black sheep every day and so gets a rough idea of the whole flock.

Jack killed one or two sheep each time he came. But the last sheep he killed was a black one. So, when the shepherd counted only twenty-nine black sheep, he knew that about a hundred sheep were already gone. He knew there was a sheep-eater in the region, and the only thing to do was to move out. He did so and found a canyon with walls of rock on three sides. This seemed a good place for sheep. He stopped here with his flock, built a fire, and feeling quite safe, fell asleep.

A growl from his dog awoke him. He jumped up and saw a giant bear standing on his hind legs, and about thirty feet high. The dog ran away in terror. And Pedro, the shepherd, was so frightened that he fell with his face on the ground and tried to pray. Thus he never learned that he saw, not a bear thirty feet high, but a seven-foot bear not far from the fire, and casting a black shadow thirty feet high on the smooth rock behind him. When Pedro looked up, the giant bear was gone. Many of the sheep rushed out of the canyon into the night, and after them ran a bear.

At sunrise he left his dog with the sheep that remained, and went to look for the lost sheep.

He found them in another canyon. They stood high up on the rocks and he could not make them come down from the rocks or leave the canyon. One or two came forward, but sprang back again in fear of something on the ground. Pedro examined the ground and saw — as he later told the other shepherds — the tracks of a giant grizzly, who ate forty to fifty sheep at a meal. So he returned to his flock quickly. He must get out of this region! But it was now late and the sheep were tired. He built two big fires at the entrance of the canyon, and made a platform fifteen feet up in a tree for his own bed. Then he loaded his gun carefully and went to bed.

VIII


The hours passed slowly. Suddenly the dog, lying near the fire, leaped up, barked furiously, and the sheep began to rush into the darkness. When a huge, dark form appeared, Pedro seized his gun and wanted to shoot, but he remembered, with horror, that the bear was thirty feet high and his platform only fifteen. So he lay with his face down on the platform and prayed. In the morning he found the tracks of the bear, and a black sheep was missing.

In the morning, as they traveled through the open plains, Pedro's eye fell on a man sitting on a rock above them. It was Lan Kellyan, the hunter. Each was glad to "talk with a human" and to get the news. Pedro told him about the giant bear that killed his sheep. "Ah, a bear devil, a real terror." The giant bear was forty feet high now. Kellyan laughed, but Pedro swore that his story was true. Then he showed Lan a bottle with a small quantity of gold-dust in it.

"I'll give you half of this gold-dust, if you agree to find that bear," said Pedro. Lan had no money; he thought for a few minutes, then answered, "I'll kill your bear for all the gold-dust in the bottle."

"I agree," said the shepherd, "if you also bring back those sheep that are now starving on the rocks there in the canyon." So Lan followed the trail of Grizzly Jack, his old companion.

The hunter went at once to the canyon and found the sheep standing in stupid terror on the rocks, and ready to starve rather than come down. At the entrance to the canyon, he found the remains of two sheep, killed and eaten by the bear. There was also a bear-track. Lan dragged one of the sheep down, but it climbed up again at once. Now he made a small pen of twigs and branches outside the canyon, and dragged the foolish creatures down one at a time. In this way he took them out of the prison of death into the pen. Then he drove them out of the pen toward the rest of the flock. This was a journey of only six miles, but it was late at night when Lan came to Pedro.

Pedro was glad to get some of his sheep back and gave Lan half of the gold-dust. That night they camped together, and no bear appeared. In the morning, when Lan went to the canyon again, he found, as he expected, that the bear had returned and killed those sheep that still remained on the rocks. At night Jack came to the camp for more sheep. The hunter awoke, his rifle cracked, the bear snorted, rushed into the bushes and was gone.

IX


Lan's bullet made a deep wound in Jack's side. Snorting with pain and rage, the grizzly dashed through the busies and traveled on for an hour or more. Then he lay down and tried to lick the wound. He continued his journey back to Tallac, and there he found a cave where he could lie down and rest. When the sun was high, he was still in pain. Now there was a strange smell of fire in the cave, and clouds of smoke came into the cave. Jack moved, but the smoke followed him. When he could bear it no longer, he rushed out of the cave. As he went, he saw a man throwing wood on a fire near the entrance to the cave. The smell that the wind brought him said, "This is the man that watched the sheep last night."

In the woods there was less smoke and, finding berries, Jack ate his first meal after his last sheep. He walked on, eating fruit and digging roots out of the ground. But the smoke grew blacker, the smell of fire stronger. Birds, deer and hares now rushed past him. The roar in the air became louder and came nearer, and Jack rushed after the other animals of the woods.

The wind rose and the flames, spreading, flew now like wild horses. The whole forest was ablaze. Jack's instinct told him to get away from that awful roar that sent dark clouds and flying pieces of fire above and heat below. So he ran with the other animals. There was nothing here that he could fight, and his feeling of danger turned almost into terror. The flames were all around him now and he rushed wildly on. The fire burnt his hair. He forgot about his wound and thought only of escape. Suddenly the thickets opened and the grizzly, half-blind and half-burnt, rushed down a bank into a small clear pool. He stayed below the surface as long as he could, then slowly and carefully he raised his head. Other creatures were in the pool, some burnt, some dead, and one of them was close beside him. Oh, he knew that smell, — it was the hunter who shot at him.

Now, although Jack did not know this, the hunter had followed him all day and had tried to smoke him out of the cave, and so set the woods on fire. Here they were, face to face, only ten feet from each other. When the heat of the flames was too great, the grizzly and the man plunged under the water. In a minute both came up again. Each tried to keep his nose and one eye above the water. But the fire was terribly hot, and they had to stay under the water as long as they could.

A huge pine-tree fell across the pool and almost hit the man. The man moved a little nearer to the bear. Another tree fell across the first one, and now the bear moved a little nearer to the man. The man's gun lay in the water near the shore, but he had his knife ready to defend himself. So, going under the water and coming up again for air, each spent an hour or more. The flames passed on. The boar wanted only to get away and began to swim toward the shore. The man saw blood coming from a wound in the bear's side, and knew now that this was the bear of the canyon. But he did not know that this was his old companion, little Jack. So the bear got out of the pool on one side, and the man got out on the other side, and each went his way.

X


All the grass and trees on the west slopes of Tallac were destroyed by the fire. Lan moved into a new shanty on the east slope, where there were still some grass and trees. So did the birds and the rabbits, and so did Grizzly Jack. His wound healed quickly, but he remembered the rifle-smell, — it was a new and terrible kind of smoke. He went down the slope of Tallac, following the smell of honey. A flock of grouse flew over his head, when he caught the smell of man. Then he heard a shot and one of the grouse fell close to him. He stepped forward to sniff as a man also stepped forward from the bushes near him. They were only about ten feet from each other, and they recognized each other.

The hunter saw a bear with burnt hair and a wounded side, and the bear smelt the rifle-smoke and the leather clothes. The man jumped back and fell, and the grizzly was upon him. The hunter lay like dead with his face to the earth, but before Jack struck, he caught a smell that made him pause. Was it something of the past that came back to him with the smell of the man? Who can say? But his rage disappeared; he did not strike, but turned and left the hunter.

No memory of the past came to Lan, however. To his friend he said, "You can never know what a grizzly will do. Why he didn't strike me, I don't know. But I tell you this, Pedro, the bear that killed your sheep on the rocks and in the canyon is the same." 

"But what about the fifty-foot bear I saw with my own eyes?" said Pedro.

"I suppose that was the night you had a bit too much of something strong. But don't worry. I'll get him yet."

Lan Kellyan asked Lou Bonamy to join him, because Bonamy's dog could find a trail. So they packed four horses with provisions and other things that they needed, and set up their tent on the east side of the mountain. They left the horses in the meadow and then went out to hunt. The dog led the way and the hunters followed. They made much noise, which Jack heard a mile away on the mountain above them. He went down the side of the mountain and found the trail of the hunters and their dog.

His nose told him at once that here was the hunter he already knew. The dog-smell especially excited him, and Jack's feet went quickly and silently — yes, with wonderful silence, along the tracks of his enemy. On rocky ground a dog cannot go much faster than a bear, and so Jack soon overtook the dog. The wind brought to the dog the smell of the bear behind, and he rushed back toward the bear. Jack waited and when the dog came, he struck him once; there was no need for a second blow. The hunters searched in silence for half an hour before they found the dead body. Bonamy loved his dog, and he and Lan swore to kill that bear.

Without a dog they had to make a new plan. They found two or three good places for traps. Then Lan returned to his camp for an ax, while Bonamy prepared the ground. When Lan was near the camp, he stopped for a minute to look around him. There, on the slope of a hill, looking down on the camp, sat the grizzly. Lan saw the burnt hair of his head and neck, and knew that he and Pedro's bear were again face to face. Lan fired, but missed the head. The bullet hit the bear in the mouth, breaking off one of his teeth. The Grizzly sprang up with a snort and dashed down the hill toward the hunter. Lan climbed up a tree, and prepared to fire again. But the camp lay just between them and the bear charged on that. With one blow of his paw, the tent was down and torn. Then Whack! the tins flew in all directions. Again Slap —whack! and the flour from the flour-bags flew up like smoke. Crack — crack! and all the cups were on the ground, broken into bits. Bang! and a bag of cartridges was in the fire. Then the bear saw a bottle of something; he pulled out the cork and held the bottle up to his mouth in a way that showed he had some experience. But he didn't like what was in the bottle and threw it down. Lan, in the tree, gazed with amazement. Now the cartridges began to explode. Jack turned round; he did not like that sound; so, jumping to a bank, he rushed away into the woods.

It was more than a week before the hunters could repair all the damage done by the bear, and to buy a new store of ammunition and provisions. Both now said it was a fight to the finish. They did not say, "If we get him," but "When we get him."

XI


Grizzly Jack, raging, but still careful, climbed up the long mountain-side when he left the ruined camp, and on the southern side found a quiet bed in a thicket. There he lay for a day and a night, in pain from his wounds. On the second day he was so hungry that he went out to look for food. He went on, passing the scents of berries, roots, grouse, deer, till a new and pleasant smell came to his nose. He followed the smell to a little meadow, and there he saw five red — or red and white — great things as big as himself. But he was not afraid of them.

He crept toward them till he reached the edge of the wood. There was a spring close by and he drank silently. Then he lay down in a thicket where he could watch. An hour passed; the sun went down and the cattle rose to graze.

One of them, a little one, walked to the spring. As she bent down, the bear struck with all his force. The blow hit her head, but Grizzly Jack knew nothing of horns. The sharp horn of the young cow hit his front foot and wounded his paw. The other cattle fled. The grizzly took the young cow in his jaws, climbed the hill to his den, and with this store of food he again lay down to rest. Though painful, his wounds were not serious, and in a week he was as well as ever.

Lan Kellyan found the bear's tracks in the woods and followed them. He knew it was the grizzly, because he studied the tracks which told him of the wound in the front foot. No two animals are alike, and Lan knew that. For example, almost all bears rub their backs against trees. Grizzly Jack did that too, but he rubbed first, then turned and tore the trunk with his teeth. One day Lan came to a tree which had marks on it made by a bear's teeth. One of the marks showed clearly that the bear had a broken tooth. Now Lan was sure that it was the same grizzly bear.

Then the hunters discovered something else about their grizzly bear, — the food he liked best. They knew that some bears ate only roots and berries; there were bears that loved the great black salmon which they found in the pools; and there were a few that were fond of meat. Jack was one of these, and he grew bigger, stronger and fiercer than other bears that ate roots and berries. But they also discovered that this grizzly loved honey. The hunter on his trail learned that he always took the honey from any bee's nest he could find.

"Say, Bonamy," said Lan to his friend, "we've got to find some honey." So they looked for and found a bee-hive and then, covering their hands and faces, took out the honey-comb and put it into one of the traps which they set up.

That night, as Grizzly Jack walked along, his nose reported the delicious smell ~of honey. He followed fast and far, until be reached a strange cave. He stopped and sniffed. There were hunters' smells, too, but there was that other smell that he loved. He walked around and knew that the smell came from inside. Then carefully he entered. He licked the bait, liked it, enjoyed it, and pulled it to increase the flow. Then Bang! and the great door closed behind him. Jack was a prisoner. He had a feeling of danger and, turning, attacked the door, but it was strong. He tore at the roof, the floor, but all were heavy, hard logs and he could do nothing.

The sun rose as he raged, and shone through the little cracks of the door, and so he turned all his strength on the door. He struck with his paws and tore with his teeth till one log after another gave way. Then he dashed through the opening and was free again. The hunters came in the morning and knew it was their grizzly that escaped, for the tracks to the trap and away from it was the track of a big bear with a wound on the front foot, while the logs inside showed the marks of a broken tooth.

"We had him that time, but he knew too much for us. Never mind, we'll see," said Lan Kellyan. But the weather was cold now, and the snow was deep on the mountains. There were no more bear tracks, — the grizzly was asleep for the winter.

XII


April came. The birds sang, the deer jumped and played, the animals came out of their holes, the streams rushed. "It's time he was out again," said Lan to Bonamy. The hunters soon learned that the grizzly's winter sleep was over. They found his track in the snow, but with it, or just ahead, were the tracks of a smaller bear.

"Look at that," said Kellyan, pointing to the smaller mark. "This is the track of his mate."

They followed the trail for some time, but the hunters saw the pair only once, — one was a huge bear and the other was a smaller bear with fur that shone in the sun with brown and silver lights.

"Oh, isn't that the most beautiful creature that ever lived!" Bonamy exclaimed. And indeed she was beautiful. But they did not see them again. They learned later that a shepherd, seeing them, shot at them, killing the brown and silver she-bear and wounding the grizzly in the leg.

To the grizzly the world was full of hunters, traps and guns. So he went to the lower hills where the sheep grazed and, limping along, he followed the sheep-smell. It led him to a little shanty. When the big bear reached it, two people ran out of the back door. "Where is my gun?" cried the man. "Trust in the saints," said the frightened woman. "Yes," said the man, "if I had a cannon, or if this was a cat. But this is a bear mountain and it is better to trust to a tree," and they climbed up a pine.

The grizzly looked into the shanty, then went to the pig-pen and killed the largest pig. This was a new kind of meat. He took it to his den and had his evening meal. He came again and again to that pig-pen, and found his food there till his wound healed. They shot at him, but each time they missed.

However, Grizzly Jack learned that the human smell was a smell of danger. So he left the hills and went down toward the plains. One night he came to a house, and in the yard found a hollow thing with a delicious smell. It was a small barrel for sugar, and there was still some sugar at the bottom. But when he put his huge head into the barrel, with nails around the edge, he could not get his head out. He roared and tore until he smashed the barrel to pieces. He then rushed away, followed by shots from the windows of the house. Now he looked for his food in the woods or on the plains.

XIII


The grizzlies of the Sierras usually lived on roots and berries with very little meat or fish. They were not dangerous if they were left alone. But that year they ate only beef. The ranchmen told wonderful stories of these new kind of bears who killed and ate only beef. There was one killer, they said, that could charge from a thicket thirty yards away and catch a young bull before it could turn and run. There was another cunning grizzly that killed a cow almost every night, and chose for his meal only the best. Pedro's grizzly chose pigs for his food, and. he also killed some men. Nobody ever saw these bears. All of the bears knew how to avoid traps and poison.

Pedro said to Lan Kellyan one day, "I know our giant bear is still here. He has killed a thousand of my sheep. You promised to kill him, but you have not done so. I tell you he is bigger than that tree. He is a devil bear."

Pedro's bear, which got the name of the Monarch, killed cattle, sheep, pigs and horses, and yet hunters knew him only by his track. Lan and Bonamy found the tracks of bears and studied them. They learned that cattle were not killed in all places at the same time, and they saw that all the cattle were killed in the same way. They found marks on trees where bears rubbed arid found the mark of a broken tooth. Kellyan came to the conclusion that Pedro's grizzly, the Monarch, and the other grizzlies that everybody talked about, were one and the same bear.

All that summer, and winter too, Kellyan rode and rode, each time too late or too soon to meet the Monarch. Then a message came from a rich man, the owner of a newspaper, offering a very big reward to any one who would bring the Monarch in alive. That night the bear killed three cows. Kellyan again asked Bonamy to join him and they prepared to hunt the bear down. No dog could track the bear better than Kellyan did. He found the foot-marks with the scars. Then the tracks led into a dense thicket at the foot of the hills, but there were no tracks out of the thicket.

Bonamy sat down to watch, while Kellyan rode back with the news and organized a group of seven excellent riders on seven fine horses. They all rode out that day to meet the Monarch. The grizzly was in the thicket, for it was still morning. The men threw stones into the thicket to drive him out, but he did not come out. At noon they set fire to the grass near the thicket. A mass of flames and smoke arose. Grizzly Jack, roaring with rage, rushed out from the other side of the thicket.

The horsemen were all around him now, not with guns, but with lassoes made of leather. The grizzly looked at the horsemen and then turned toward the hills. Three of the riders nearest to the bear rode forward, swinging their lassoes. Grizzly Jack rose on his hind legs, surprised. The lassoes flew through the air. A noose was round the great bear's neck. The rider leaped away to tighten the noose on the bear's neck. But at once the bear's paws went up, and the ropes fell down. The grizzly did not like this fight' — there, were too many against him, and he turned to the Dills again. But another lasso flew through the air, caught him and stopped him with a heavy jerk. Now he gave one great snort of rage; and turned round. His huge paws seized the rope and broke it like a twig.

Round and round him now the riders flew, waiting for a chance to throw a lasso again. The bear raged and roared. He was far from the burning thicket, but there was a bush near him and he put his back to that. Then he waited for the enemy. The frightened horses came nearer and nearer, and the Monarch watched — waited. The earth shivered as he launched himself — and struck — struck — struck. Three men, three horses were in the sand. The horses never rose. Three horses dead, one man dead, one almost dead, and only one escaped! Kellyan's lasso flew out and caught the grizzly by the neck again. The men shouted, the horses at the ends of the ropes pulled. The rope choked the Monarch, but he planted both paws on the ground, bent his huge shoulders and leaned back and back on those ropes, dragging the horses and their riders forward more and more.

Then he charged. Another horse fell. Crack! Crack! Crack! - the men fired their pistols now. But the huge bear rushed off in the direction of the friendly hills. The shots wounded him in many places, but he went on, snorting, and dragging the ropes to the hills, where he bit them off in peace. The men, sad and tired, went back.

XIV


"What shall we do now?" asked Bonamy, as he and Lan sat in low spirits by the fire that night. Kellyan was silent for some time, then said slowly: "Bonamy, that's the greatest bear alive. Before to-day I wanted to get him. Now I'm going to get him, if it takes me the rest of my life.

I think I can do it alone, but I know I can do it with you."

They camped in the hills, where they received the short message from the rich newspaper man when he heard of the fight with the riders: "I want you to bring in that bear."

"How are you going to do it, Lan?"

"Steel traps are no good, — he smashes them. Lassoes, too, are no good, and he knows all about log traps. But I have an idea. First we must follow him up. I think that will take three months."

So, the next day, they began to follow the bear's tracks again. Three months, Lan said, but it took six months to carry out his plan. Meanwhile the Monarch killed and killed. In each part of the Grizzly's trail they left traps made of heavy logs, with iron inside. They left these traps open until they were gray and until the smell of man was gone. Then they put baits into all the traps, — honey, the bait that the Monarch never refused. When at last they found that the honey baits were gone, they came to the last part of the bear's trail. They set every trap, baiting each with a mass of honey — but honey mixed with a strong sleeping draught. Then they closed the traps.

XV


That night the bear left his cave. His wounds healed, he was now as strong as ever. As he went on toward the plains, his nose reported the smell of sheep, deer, cows, a bull. Then a different scent came to him. At once he turned and went down the hill and through the pines, on and on, faster and faster. At last the scent led him to a long, low cave. He was not afraid of such caves. He had robbed such caves of their honey before. This was the same smell. So he went into the cave and there was the delicious mass. He licked and licked, then tore the bag to get more. Suddenly the door went down with a bang! The Monarch stopped, but all was quiet and there was no smell of danger. The door, he could break such a door! So he licked and licked, greedily at first, then slowly, then sleepily. His eyes closed and he sank down on the ground and slept.

The two men, pale and calm, came in the morning. There were tracks that led into the trap. The door was down, and they could see a mass of fur that filled the trap and moved up and down in a deep sleep.

They brought strong ropes and strong chains with them — also chloroform, if the bear awoke too soon. They chained him, bound him, —his great paws to his neck, his neck and breast and hind legs to a log. Then they dragged him out and let him awake. Chained and bound, raging and powerless, what words can describe the fallen Monarch? They put him on a sleigh, and six horses with a long chain took him to the railway. A steam-derrick lifted the bear on to a flat car. The train started and soon disappeared in the distance.

So they brought the Monarch to the great city, in chains. They put him in a cage, not only strong enough for a lion, but three times as strong. Free in the cage, he walked round, looking for a place which he could break down. He attacked the heavy bars. It was clear that he could get out, so they dragged the prisoner to another cage that an elephant could not break down. But it stood on the ground, and in an hour the great bear dug a hole in the earth, into which he disappeared, until a stream of water from a pipe filled the hole and forced him to come out.

They put him into a new cage, made especially for him, — with a hard rock floor, great bars of steel nine feet high and a steel ceiling. He walked quickly round the cage, tried every bar, examined every corner and found at last the place where there was a wooden beam — the only piece of wood in the cage. Here he lay on his side and worked and worked till he cut the beam into two pieces. But the steel bolts remained and he could do nothing with them. This was his last hope, and the great bear now lay down in the cage with his nose in his paws and sobbed. These were animal sounds indeed, but they told, as clearly as in man, of the hope that was gone. The keepers came with food, but the bear did not move. They put the food down, but he did not touch it, and he lay as before. Two days passed. The keeper looked at him and said, "He is dying, send for Kellyan."

So Kellyan came. A feeling of pity came over him when he saw the bear, for men of courage like courage in others, even in animals. He put his arm through the bars and stroked the bear, but the bear did not move. Then Kellyan said, "Let me go in to him."

"You are mad," said the keepers. But Kellyan insisted, so they put a grating in front of the bear and let him in. Kellyan put his hand on the huge head, but the Monarch did not move. The hunter stroked his head and spoke to him. His hand went to the big round ears. He looked and jumped back in surprise. Each ear had a little round hole in it, — and Kellyan knew it was his little Jack.

"Oh, Jacky, I didn't know it was you. Jacky, don't you know me?" But Jack did not stir. Kellyan got up quickly and ran back to the hotel. There he put on his old hunter's suit and returned to the cage with a mass of honey.

"Jacky, Jacky," he cried, "honey, honey!" Jack did not remember the voice, and the words, "Honey — Jacky — honey!" meant nothing to him. But the smell of the honey, the coat, the hands that he once loved, all together awoke something in him. Jacky, the grizzly Monarch, raised his head a little. His eyes were nearly closed, but his nose went up weakly two or three times, — the way it used to do long, ago. Now it was Kellyan that broke down.

"I didn't know it was you, Jacky. Oh, Jacky, forgive me!" He rose and fled from the cage.

The keepers were there. They did not understand the scene, but one of them pushed the honey nearer, and said, "Honey — Jacky — honey!"

Filled with despair, the Monarch was ready to die, but here was new hope, — the man who conquered him seemed to be a friend. And the keeper, repeating the old words, "Honey — Jacky —honey!" pushed the mass till it touched his muzzle. He began to lick the honey, and appetite returned. The keepers brought him delicate foods. They tried everything to get him back to strength and — a prison life. He ate and — lived.

And still he lives, but pacing — pacing — pacing. You may see him in the Zoological Gardens, looking, not at the crowds, but at something far away, far away toward Tallac. Kellyan came to see him again, but the Monarch did not know him. Sometimes he raged, but not for a long time. Then again, pacing—pacing—pacing, without aim, without end. He is a prisoner in his cage, the prisoner of the Golden Gate,83 seeking freedom, seeking and raging, raging and seeking, back and forth for ever — in vain!

There are over 11,000 magazines and periodicals in the United States. More than 4,000 of them appear monthly, and over 1,300 are published each week. They cover all topics and interests, from art and architecture to tennis, from aviation and gardening to computers and literary criticism. Quite a few have international editions, are translated into other languages, or have "daughter" editions in other countries. Among the many internationals are National Geographic, Reader's Digest, Cosmopolitan, Vogue, Time, Newsweek, Scientific American, and Psychology Today.

The weekly newsmagazines — the best known are Time, Newsweek, and U.S. News & World Report — serve as a type of national press. They also have considerable international impact, above all Time. This newsmagazine appears each week in several international editions. There are some for various parts of the United States, for the Far East, for Australia, for Europe, and so on. Time claims that although the advertising changes in each edition, the content remains the same internationally. This is not quite true: in the U.S. editions, for instance, there is no section called "European Notes." In any case, no other single news publication is read so widely by so many people internationally as is Time.

There are two other reasons why Time has such international influence. First, several other newsmagazines were modeled on Time. Among these are the leading newsmagazines in France, Germany, and Italy. Secondly, Time also sells news, news features, interviews, photographs, graphics, and charts to other publications throughout the world. Feature stories that first appear in Time are therefore echoed in many other publications in many other countries.

The newsmagazines are all aimed at the average, educated reader. There are also many periodicals which treat serious educational, political, and cultural topics at length. The best known of these include The Atlantic Monthly, Harvard Educational Review, Saturday Review, The New Republic, National Review, Foreign Affairs, Smithsonian, and, of course, The New Yorker. Such widely read periodicals, along with the hundreds of professional journals, provide a broad and substantial forum for serious discussion. Again, a lot of what first appears in these publications is often reprint internationally or in book form. Many of the long The New Yorker essays, for example, have later appeared in shortened form in publications such as England's The Observer Magazine or Germany's Die Zeit.

There is a strong market for such serious publications. National Geographic has an average circulation of over 10 million, Consumer Reports some 3 million, Smithsonian (published by the Smithsonian Institution in Washington D.C.) over 2 million copies, Scientific American (U.S. edition) over 700,000, and Saturday Review- and The New Yorker over half a million each. More popular and less demanding publications, such as Family Circle, Woman's Day, or National Enquirer, of course, have a huge readership and sell over 4.5 million copies of each issue. Altogether, there are about 60 magazines in the United States that sell over 1 million copies per issue each, and roughly the same number with more than 500,000 copies per issue.

Cities and towns
DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES

The 1990 Census showed that some important demographic changes were taking place. Here are some results of the Census.

Re-ranking cities

1990 Census	1980 Census
1. New York City	(1)
2. Los Angeles	(3)
3. Chicago	(2)
4. Houston	(5)
5. Philadelphia	(4)
6. San Diego	(8)
7. Dallas	(7)
8. Phoenix	(9)
9. Detroit	(6)
10. San Antonio	(11)
The trend is clear. New York City remained the nation's largest — about 7 million, but the Census said it lost almost 40,000 residents.

Among the USA's next biggest — Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston and Philadelphia — only the Sun Belt cities grew.

The USA's fastest growing city in the top 50 was Fresno, California, a farm town turned high tech. It grew by 61 % and has more than 350,000 residents.

The Census figures show that the once sleeping giants of the South and West are the new power cities now. These figures also confirm the shift of the USA's money from the North and East. And they underscore the importance of Sun Belt cities seldom heard from 20 years ago, handing them more federal dollars, a larger voice in Washington and — even more than before — the power to sway presidential elections.

THE CITY OF WASHINGTON


The city of Washington was designed in the late eighteenth century. It is co-extensive with the District of Columbia. When George Washington was elected President of the United States, there was no permanent capital to house the government. Since members of Congress could not agree as to where the capital should be located, it was decided to choose a special place for the new capital. The State of Maryland agreed to allot a wild and marshy area on the Potomac River. The region was called the District of Columbia, after Christopher Columbus, and the capital was called Washington, after George. Washington.

Work on the new capital began in 1791. The man who designed the city was Major Pierre-Charles L'Enfant. His grand geometric plan envisioned stately buildings as the city's core and a grassy, park-like mall with uninterrupted vistas west from the Capitol Building to the Potomac River.

Yet, even by the turn of the twentieth century, Washington showed little of the grandeur of this vision. In the crowded area north of the Mall, factories and mills rubbed shoulders with stores, hotels, restaurants, and row houses. The Mall itself had been broken into segments and landscaped with winding carriage roads and varied plantings that destroyed its symmetry. For a time the Mall was also a transportation center, with railroad tracks crossing at Sixth Street that created an eyesore and safety hazard.

In 1901, as citizens sought to beautify urban areas throughout the United States, the Senate Park Commission (commonly known as the McMillan Commission after its chairman, Senator James McMillan) developed an influential new plan for Washington. This plan aimed to return the city to the formality envisioned in the late eighteenth century and to invest it with a grandeur reflecting the nation's new sense of wealth and stature.

The Mall was to become a wide, formal lawn flanked by rows of trees, against a backdrop of classical buildings, many with domes. At the foot of Capitol Hill, a "Union Square" was to be built with mounted statues of Civil War generals Grant, Sherman, and Sheridan, facing down the Mall.

The McMillam Commission had anticipated the need for a complex of government office building, and with the government's growth during World War I, the need was urgent by the 1920s. It was the financier and art collector Andrew Mellon (1855-1937) who soon became deeply involved in the city's architecture. As Secretary of Treasury, he was responsible for the realization of the so called Federal Triangular Project. The core of the project was to reconstruct the large triangular area north of the Mall between Constitution and Pennsylvania Avenues, from Sixth to Fifteenth Street and to build offices for the government.

To ensure that the project would reflect the dignity and importance of the Federal Government, Mellon established a "Board of Architectural Consultants", which ultimately included John Russell Pope, one of America's most prominent architects. Pope's contribution to the Federal Triangular Project was enormous. Thanks to Pope's plan, Washington today is among the most beautiful cities in the world.

SEEING THE SIGHTS OF WASHINGTON


The Capitol

Located on Capitol Hill, the seat of American legislature dominates the City of Washington. Through the halls of this magnificent structure have passed the leading figures in American history.

The Capitol is the tallest edifice in Washington: no other building is allowed to be taller than the Capitol. It stands 88 feet above the level of the Potomac River and covers approximately 4 acres. Its length from north to south is 751 feet 4 inches; its width, including approaches, is 350 feet; and its height above the base line on the east front to the top of the Statue of Freedom is 287 feet 5 inches.

Construction of the US Capitol began in 1793. The original plan for the building was drawn by Dr. William Thornton. President John Adams addressed the first joint session of Congress in the Senate Chamber on November 22, 1800.

All interiors of the building were burned by the British in 1814. The Capitol was reoccupied in 1819. The present Senate and House wings were begun in 1851, but the building was not finished until 1867. Since then, numerous changes have been made.

The Washington National Monument

The Washington National Monument is a tapering shaft or obelisk of white marble, 555 feet five and one-eighth inches high.

In 1833 the Washington National Monument Society was organized "for the purpose of erecting a great National Memorial to Washington". Fifteen years later the cornerstone was laid.

After many difficulties and delays, the building was opened to the public in 1888. An elevator takes visitors to the 500-foot level. Return is by elevator as well but if one wishes, he can walk down the 898 steps, from which the 190 memorial stones donated by local, State, and foreign governments can be seen.

The Lincoln Memorial

In 1867, two years after Abraham Lincoln's death, Congress organized the Lincoln Memorial Association to plan a monument to his memory.

Work finally started on February 12, 1914. Henry Bacon was the architect, and Daniel Chester French sculpted the great marble statue of Lincoln.

Carved on the walls are Lincoln's Gettysburg and Second Inaugural Addresses.

The Jefferson Memorial

Thomas Jefferson, besides being President of the United States, was also a gifted amateur architect, political thinker, and founder of the University of Virginia. This memorial, dedicated on April 13, 1943, the 200th anniversary of Jefferson's birth, was designed by the architectural firm of John Russell Pope in the simple classical style admired by Jefferson.

Inside the memorial is a 19-foot bronze statue of Jefferson sculpted by Rudulph Evans. Excerpts from four of Jefferson's writings are carved on the interior walls.

Surrounding the Memorial are cherry trees that the City of Tokyo presented to the City of Washington in 1912.

The Arlington National Cemetery

Arlington National Cemetery was established on June 15, 1864, on land originally the estate of George Washington.

Prominent among the many memorials in this national cemetery is the Tomb of the Unknowns, and among the unknown dead are 2,111 who died on the battlefields in the Civil War.

Many famous Americans were buried here. On November 25, 1963, Arlington Cemetery became the burial ground of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, President of the United States.

The Vietnam Veterans Memorial

The polished black granite walls are inscribed with the names of more than 58,000 men and women who gave their lives or remain missing in the Vietnam War.

Names of the service men and women are inscribed "in the order they were taken from us". Alphabetical directories at the memorial help visitors find specific names by panel and line number.

A flag-staff and bronze statue of three servicemen stand at the entrance plaza.

NEW YORK


New York, N. Y., is the post office designation of the largest metropolis in the United States. Officially it is the City of New York, and popularly it is called New York City.

The City of New York is situated at the mouth of the Hudson River, sometimes called the North River. The five boroughs comprising the city are: Manhattan, on the Manhattan Island between the Hudson and East Rivers; the Bronx, on the southernmost part of the mainland; Queens and Brooklyn, on Long Island, separated from Manhattan by East River; and Richmond on Staten Island in New York Bay.

The City credits Verrazano as first viewing in 1524 the place, where New York now stands. Henry Hudson found Manhattan on September 11, 1609. The first houses were built in lower Manhattan in 1613. On May 6, 1626, Peter Minuit, director general of New Netherland, as the Dutch called the colony, paid the Indians 60 guilders for Manhattan, commonly translated as $24, actually $39. When the settlement had around 200 people, it was named New Amsterdam.

In 1653 they erected a wall to protect their settlement from which Wall Street takes its name.

On September 8, 1664, British troops occupied New Amsterdam without resistance, overthrew the Dutch government, and called the place New York. Seven years later the Dutch recaptured the city and called it New Orange, but in 1674 the city was in the hands of the British again who returned the name New York.

The City of New York has always been in the center of political events. It witnessed the American Revolution; the Declaration of Independence was read to the American troops here on July 9, 1776, in the presence of George Washington. It was here on April 30, 1789, that Washington took the oath of office on the balcony of Federal Hall.

Thanks to its geographical position and historical past, New York has grown into a big financial, commercial, and industrial center with the heart in the Borough of Manhattan. America's business and culture are in Manhattan. The Empire State Building, the World Trade Center, Times Square, Rockefeller Center, Central Park, Harlem, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Broadway — all these World famous sights are in Manhattan. What unites them is probably a small street, only a few blocks long, which is the financial center of the whole United States — Wall Street. It provides the nation with centralized credit and banking facilities. It is a sales place for securities; it is also one of the biggest money capitals of the world. Economic and financial power of the United States is concentrated in the buildings of Wall Street; in the Stock Exchange, one of the world's greatest; in the banks, among them the oldest in the city, the Bank of New York, founded in 1784.

How the USA Constitution Began
If you read this story you'll be able to find a common language with any American. All of them are very proud of their Constitution.
The USA Constitution was written by fifty-five men who met at Philadelphia Convention in 1787. In four months they wrote the Constitution which has lasted over 200 years!
All were white men. The average age was forty-two. Many of these men had been leaders during the American Revolution. About three-fourths of them had served in Congress. Most were leaders in their states. Some were rich, but most were not. None were poor.
There were no native Americans among the delegates. There were no women. There were no black men or slaves. Poor farmers were not present either.
George Washington, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were the three important delegates to the Convention.
George Washington came from Virginia. He was probably the most respected man in the country. As the commander-in-chief of the American army during the Revolution, he was a great hero to most people.
Then he had retired to his plantation and would have liked to remain there. However, his friends told him he should attend the convention. They said his support was necessary to get a new constitution accepted by the people. Since Washington thought a stronger national government was necessary, he came to Philadelphia.
James Madison is often called the "Father of the Constitution". His ideas about government greatly influenced the other delegates. He had already developed a written plan for the new government which he brought to Philadelphia. It was known as the Virginia plan and it called for a strong national government. Madison took notes during the meetings. Much of what we know about the Philadelphia Convention is based on his notes.
Benjamin Franklin attended the convention as a delegate from Pennsylvania. He was 81 years old and in poor health. Like Washington, he was highly respected by the Americans. He had been a printer, inventor and writer. He had also helped the country develop good relations with other nations. At the convention, he encouraged the delegates to cooperate with each other and work hard to settle their differences. His support of the Constitution was important to the other delegates.
Once the Framers reached these agreements, it was time to get down to work and create a constitution.
Delegates from states with large populations believed that a state with more people should have more votes in Congress.
During the long debates, the Framers could not reach a decision on this issue. Neither side was willing to give in. The delegates were almost ready to quit and go home. A special committee of one delegate from each state was formed to try and find a solution. The members of the committee worked hard to find a compromise a majority of the delegates would accept.
The result of the committee's work is known as the Great Compromise. The main parts of this compromise were:
* Congress would have two parts, or houses. These houses would be the Senate and the House of Representatives.
* Each state, large or small, would have 2 representatives in the Senate.
* In the House, the number of representatives of each state would be based on the number of people living in that state. By May 25, 1787, the delegates from over half of the states had arrived in Philadelphia. From the start, the Framers agreed on 4 things:
1. George Washington would serve as president of the convention.
2. Each state, large or small, would have one vote at the convention.
3. They would not follow the instructions Congress had given them. They would not even try to improve the Articles of confederation. They thought the Articles had too many weaknesses. Instead, they decided to write an entirely new constitution.
4. They wo.uld keep their discussions private. They also decided that what they said at the convention would remain a secret for 30 years. There were 2 reasons for this:
* They believed they needed to speak freely to create the best possible constitution. If people could listen to them and tell others what they said, they would not feel as free to discuss their ideas.
* They wanted the new constitution to be accepted by the people. They were afraid that the people might not accept it if they knew all the disagreements the Framers had. The agreement meant that each state would have equal power in the Senate. The states with more people would have more power in the House of Representatives. However, no law could be passed unless a majority of both the Senate and the House of Representatives voted for it. Because of this compromise large and small states could check each other's power and protect their own interests.

O. Henry, whose real name was William Sydney Porter, was an American short-story writer. His stories are still popular today. He was born in 1862 in a small provincial town. In his early years he tried many jobs, among which were several literary ones.
O. Henry's first story was published in 1899, when the writer was in prison on a false charge of stealing money from a bank. After he came out of prison, O. Henry became a professional writer.
O. Henry describes the life of the "little people": clerks, shop assistants and farm workers. His stories are mainly humourous and amusing, with the traditional happy end. Through the gaiety and humour of his stories, however, the hard life of the poor can be seen.
O. Henry died in 1910.

Miss Posie Carrington had begun life in the small village of Cranberry Corners. Then her name had been Posie Boggs. At the age of eighteen she had left the place and become an actress at a small theatre in a large city, and here she took the name of Carrington. Now Miss Carrington was at the height of her fame, the critics praised her, and in the next season she was going to star in a new play about country life. Many young actors were eager to partner Miss Posie Carrington in the play, and among them was a clever young actor called Highsmith.
"My boy", said Mr Goldstein, the manager of the theatre, when the young man went to him for advice, "take the part if you can get it. The trouble is Miss Carrington won't listen to any of my suggestions. As a matter of fact she has turned down a lot of the best imitators of a country fellow already, and she says she won't set foot on the stage unless her partner is the best that can be found. She was brought up in a village, you know, she won't be deceived when a Broadway fellow goes on the stage with a straw in his hair and calls himself a village boy. So, young man, if you want to play the part, you'll hate to convince Miss Carrington. Would you like to try?" "I would with your permission," answered the young man. "But I would prefer to keep my plans secret for a while."
Next day Highsmith took the train for Cranberry Corners. He stayed three days in that small and distant village. Having found out all he could about the Boggs and their neighbours, Highsmith returned to the city...
Miss Posie Carrington used to spend her evenings at a small restaurant where actors gathered after performances.
One night when Miss Posie was enjoying a late supper in the company of her fellow-actors, a shy, awkward young man entered the restaurant. It was clear that the lights and the people made him uncomfortable. He upset one chair, sat in another one, and turned red at the approach of a waiter.
"You may fetch me a glass of beer', he said, in answer to the waiter's question. He looked around the place and then seeing Miss Carrington, rose and went to her table with a shining smile.
"How're you, Miss Posie?" he said. "Don't you remember me — Bill Summers — the Summerses that used to live next door to you? I've grown up since you left Cranberry Corners. They still remember you there. Eliza Perry told me to see you in the city while I was here. You know Eliza married Benny Stanfield, and she says —" 
"I say", interrupted Miss Carrington brightly, "Eliza Perry married. She used to be so stout and plain." "Married in June," smiled the gossip. "Old Mrs Blither^ sold her place to Captain Spooner; the youngest Waters girl ran away with a music teacher."
"Oh!" Miss Carrington cried out. "Why, you people, excuse me a while — this is an old friend of mine — Mr — what was it? Yes, Mr Summers — Mr Goldstein, Mr Ric-ketts. Now, Bill, come over here and tell me some more."
She took him to a vacant table in a corner.
"I don't seem to remember any Bill Summers," she said thoughtfully, looking straight into the innocent blue eyes of the young man. "But 1 know the Summerses all right, and your face seems familiar when I come to think of it. There aren't many changes in the old village, are there? Have you seen any of my people?"
And then Highsmith decided to show Miss Posie his abilities as a tragic actor.
"Miss Posie," said Bill Summers, "I was at your people's house just two or three days ago. No, there aren't many changes to speak of. And yet it doesn't look the same place that it used to be."
"How's Ma?" asked Miss Carrington.
"She was sitting by the front door when I saw her last," said Bill. "She's older than she was, Miss Posie. But everything in the house looked just the same. Your Ma asked me to sit down.
"William," said she. "Posie went away down that road and something tells me she'll come back that way again when she gets tired of the world and begins to think about her old mother. She's always been a sensible girl."
Miss Carrington looked uncomfortable.
"Well," she said, "I am really very glad to have seen you, Bill. Come round and see me at the hotel before you leave the city."
After she had left, Highsmith, still in his make-up, went up to Goldstein.
"An excellent idea, wasn't it?" said the smiling actor. "The part is mine, don't you think? The little lady never once guessed."
"I didn't hear your conversation," said Goldstein, "but your make-up and acting were perfect. Here's to your success. You'd better visit Miss Carrington early tomorrow and see how she feels about you."
At 11.45 the next morning Highsmith, handsome and dressed in the latest fashion, sent up his card to Miss Carrington at her hotel.
He was shown up and received by the actress's French maid.
"I am sorry," said the maid, "but I am to say this to everybody. Miss Carrington has cancelled all engagements on the stage and has returned to live in that — what do you call that pace? — Cranberry Corners!"

Our brokerage firm was founded in 1931 by my father, Reed Glover. He was a banker. I'm 40 years old. I started in the securities business in 1954. I believed we were in a new era: there could no longer be a severe collapse in stock prices.
In 1968 and 1969 a great many large firms overexpanded. Worse than that, they recommended stocks which were unsound. The downturn occurred in 1969 and 1970, many of these firms went out of business. They forgot that there really isn't a new era. The business cycle is not going to vanish. You must be prepared for adversity as well as prosperity.
When you're dealing with an individual's money it's a terrific responsibility. The individual is exposed to so many people in the brokerage business that it's quite a compliment to have him turn to you for investment service. The rule I've always gone by is that I expect to have my brother-in-law's account and my roommate in college. But it seems everybody has a roommate in college or a brother-in-law who's in this business. So I don't really use my social acquaintances for purposes of business. My closest friends are with many of .the brokerage firms. At social gatherings we don't discuss the market, other than in an amuzing way.
I'm amazed how rarely the individual customer will find fault with the broker. Along with that, there's no written contract in our business. If the stock goes down, the customer's word is his pledge. They all pay. This is an honorable business.
When you're dealing with a person's money and investments, you deal with his hopes and ambitions and dreams.
It's quite easy to look around and say this is a parasitical business. All you're doing is raking off your cut from the productivity of others. That is, I think, an erroneous view. Frankly, I've wrestled with that. It comes down to this: the btext2html of the country's strength and prosperity is the finest economic system that's ever been devised, with all its imperfections.
Our system depends on a free exchange of publicly owned assets, and we're part of the picture. If there were no stock market, I think the economy would be stifled. It would prevent the growth of our companies. Without a stock market, the companies wouldn't be able to invest their capital and grow. This is my life and I count myself very fortunate to be in this work. It's fulfilling.
Among the passengers travelling home by train from Florence there was a certain Miss Bradley.
I only noticed her when passing down the corridor, because of her really remarkable plainness. She was rather a large, awkward woman of about thirty-five with a big, red nose, and large spectacles.
Later on, when I went to the dining-car, Miss Bradley was already seated, and the attendant placed me opposite her.
I think we may have exchanged half a dozen words at dinner, when passing one another the sugar or the bread. But they were certainly all we exchanged, and after we left the dining-car, I did not see Miss Bradley again until we reached Calais Maritime.
And then our acquaintance really began, and it began entirely on my initiative. There were plenty of porters, and I called one without difficulty from the window of the train. But as I got off, I saw Miss Bradley standing on the platform with two large very old suit-cases. The porters were passing her by.
I am quite sure that had she been an even slightly attractive woman, I should not have gone up to her, but she was so ugly, and looked so helpless that I approached her, and said: "My porter has a barrow. Would you like him to put your cases on it too?" Miss Bradley turned and looked at me.
"Oh — thank you. It is very kind of you."
My porter, without great enthusiasm, added her luggage to mine; and in a few minutes we found ourselves on board the Channel ferry.
Before the boat had been under way for ten minutes, I realized that Miss Bradley was a remarkable bore. Shyly and hesitantly she kept on talking about nothing, and made no remark worth taking notice of.
I learned that she had been in Italy a fortnight, visiting her sister who was married to an Italian. She had never been out of England before.
I did not look forward to travelling to London with her for another four hours, so excusing myself I went along to the booking-office on board the boat and booked myself a seat on the Golden Arrow.
Miss Bradley was travelling by the ordinary boat train, so this would mean that we should part at Dover.
At Dover I hired one of the crew to carry our luggage.
Normally, passengers for the Golden Arrow are dealt with by the customs first, as the train leaves twenty minutes before the ordinary boat train. When the boy asked if we were going on the Golden Arrow, I hesitated and then said "Yes".
It was too difficult to explain that one of us was and one of us wasn't, and then it would get Miss Bradley through the customs quickly.
As we went towards the Customs Hall, I explained carefully to her that my train left before hers, but that I would see her through the customs; the boy would then take the luggage to our trains, and she could sit comfortably in hers till it left. Miss Bradley said, "Oh, thank you very much."
The boy, of course, had put our suit-cases together on the counter, and Miss Bradley and I went and stood before them. In due course the customs examiner reached us, looked at the four suitcases in that human X-ray manner which customs examiners must practise night and morning, and said, "This is all yours?"
I was not quite sure whether he was speaking to me, or me and Miss Bradley. So I replied, "Well — mine and this lady's".
The examiner said, "But you're together?"
"For the moment," I said rather foolishly, smiling at Miss Bradley.
"Yes," said the customs man patiently. "But are you travelling together? Is this your joint luggage?"
"Well, no. Not exactly. We're just sharing a porter "
I pointed my cases out. I had nothing to declare, and declared it. Without asking me to open them, the examiner chalked the cases and then, instead of moving to my left and dealing with Miss Bradley, moved to the right, and began X-raying somebody else's luggage.
The boy took my cases off the counter. I hesitated for a moment, but then decided it was no use waiting for Miss Bradley since we were about to part, so I said:
"Well, I'll say good-bye now, and go and find my train. I expect the examiner'll come back and do you next. The porter will stay and bring our luggage up to the trains when you're through. Good-bye."
Miss Bradley said, "Oh... good-bye and thank you so much." We shook hands and I left.
I found my seat in the Golden Arrow and began to read.
It must have been about twenty minutes later that I suddenly realized the train was due to leave in five minutes and that the porter had not yet brought my luggage. I was just going to look for him when he appeared, breathing heavily, with my suit-cases. I asked him rather what he had been doing.
"The lady is still there," said the boy, "and will be for some time, I think. They are going through her things properly."
"But why?"
"Well, they'd found forty watches when I came away, and that was only the start, so I thought maybe you wouldn't want me to wait."
I have often wondered whether, when Miss Bradley stood so helplessly on the platform at Calais, she had already chosen me as the person to come to her rescue, or whether she was just sure that somebody would.
Looking back, I think, she must have chosen me. I am fairly sure of that though exactly how, I have never been clear. I am quite sure she never made the slightest effort to make my acquaintance.
I am a painter. I like painting more than anything else, except obvious things like food and drink, that all sensible people like. As a painter, I have quite a lot of talent — I'm not sure yet how much — and a fairly complete mastery of most of the technical requirements; that is, I am an instinctive colourist, and my composition is interesting.
I have my difficulties, but who does not? I get on fairly well with people, and I ought to be quite as successful as a dozen other painters — but I am not. I never have been since my very first one-man show, when I was discovered by the critics, taken up — and very quickly put down again — and sold out.
"Sold out" is the just phrase. I was twenty-two after that show. Apart from quite a lot of money, the way I understand it, I had one oil painting left, three drawings, and very little common sense, my most valuable remaining possession. The common sense prevented me from believing what the critics said and considering myself a genius, and not only a genius but a painter who would always be able to live by painting exactly what he wanted to paint when he wanted to paint it.
I did, however, think that I could probably afford to marry Leila, rent my own studio, and stop being a student.
But I have never had another show which sold like that first one, although I am a better painter than I was then. My work is as contemporary as any; of course it is; how can anyone intelligent and honest paint behind his time, deliberately or by accident? But more and more critics support what is called Action Painting and Other Art, when a painter is trying to be as different from anyone else as he can. Anyway, it has been clear ever since that first sell-out show that I have an old way of seeing things and am really an academic.
My second show went fairly well because Other Art had not then got very far. But ever since. Not that I don't sell a certain amount privately. I do. To the uneducated and even the half-educated my work seems to give a good deal of pleasure.
However, in the last two years things have got very tight. 
We can't pay the quarter's rent and we can't afford not to, so something had to be done. So my applying for a most unpleasant job which my uncle could give me. I got it. Start next Monday.
When I got back from the interview, Leila was sitting in the studio, which she seldom does, as it was a working-room entirely. She said, "Hi, Bill. You'll never guess what's happened."
I thought it was something awful because she hadn't even asked me about the job. I said, "What?"
"Garrard came — just before lunch." Garrard is my dealer, and I'd been trying to get him to come and look at my work and arrange for a show for the last year. Dealers!
I sat down and asked Leila what he wanted.
"He came because there's a Mrs. Spencer Thompson who's interested in having you paint a small portrait of her daughter. She's American and very rich and she wants you to paint it."
"Very nice of her. She must have seen one of the early portraits. Did you make Garrard look at the work? Did he say anything about a show?"
Leila went bright pink and opened her eyes much too wide as she does when she's surprised. She said, "It's the most extraordinary thing. It's really awfully funny, I suppose, but I think you'll be furious. I was just cleaning up in here a bit as you were out".
I said, "I wish you wouldn't. The still life on the easel's wet — it doesn't want a lot of dust sticking to the surface."
This is what I always say when Leila cleans the studio, and while I was saying it I looked round for the first time. The studio has a parquet floor, and to protect it I have a large piece of hardboard in front of my easel to catch the worst drips of paint.
Now the piece was on the easel and my still life was leaning against the wall.
I said, "Good God! What on earth? Leila!" and jumped up to take it off the easel and throw it on the floor again and make sure my Jars in a Window — which was coming along rather well — was all right.
Leila jumped up too and stood between me and the easel.
"Bill, listen a minute. It's Garrard. Not me. Of course I wouldn't."
"Garrard? What do you mean?"
"He was looking at the pictures explaining how the gallery was booked up for a year and how he couldn't really promise you a show till next year and saying, "Mm," to each picture instead of "Ah," like he does when he likes them, and suddenly he saw the hardboard leaning against the wall."
"What was it doing there?"
"I told you, I was cleaning. I'd picked it up to sweep underneath it." He said, "Ah," at once, and then he stepped back and said, "Ah ha!" with his head on one side.
"And then he turned to me and said, "Leila, my dear, I'm very glad to have this opportunity to talk to you with Bill not here. I thought — I felt — that there must be something like this. Tell me — why is he holding out on us?"
I saw it all, but I couldn't really believe it.
"He didn't really think it was an abstract?"
"He did. He not only thought it was an abstract, he thought it was wonderful. He said he'd always known you had it in you, as soon as you caught up with contemporary thought. That was why he'd never worried you, and always tried to help us keep going. You can't hurry genius. And he'd known you were that ever since he gave you your first show."
We rocked with laughter. I moved to take the board off the easel again.
Leila held my arm. "Listen, Bill. He wants to buy it."
"Buy it? Didn't you tell him?"
She opened her eyes again. "No, I didn't. I couldn't really. I suppose I should have, but it would have made him look too silly. He'd have hated us for ever after." I just said I didn't think you'd sell it."
"I sure won't. It's top absurd."
She began to dance, quoting Garrard. "And now, Leila, my dear, show me the rest. Is there enough for a full show? When did this start?"
"No!"
"Yes, I tell you. So I said — I'm sorry, Bill, but I couldn't think what to do — that you did not want to talk about them and had told me not to let anyone see them, but I'd tell you what he said." 110
He said, "I'll ring him up this afternoon. Leila, my dear, I must go now, but I want you to know how splendid, how really splendid, this development is in your husband's work, I'm sure you do know, because you're one of the intelligent wives. Tell me, how many paintings are there?"
"I said I didn't know." And he sighed and said, "Ah, well. He ought to be able to manage a show next spring at the latest. Tell him I'll be ringing him, and tell him not to waste time with the portrait. It's not worth his while. And this one — if he wants to part with it, I'll buy it myself. That'll show him what I think of the new work. That's absolutely accurate word for word reporting, Bill. I've been sitting here going over it to make sure I wasn't mad or anything."
We were both quite silent and serious for a minute as we thought about it. I stood in front of the easel and looked at the board carefully.
I remembered that I'd been reading something about Action Painting in America at breakfast yesterday and when I came in to the studio I was, I thought, in the necessary emotional condition, it was anger and a sort of despair.
So I threw a lump of crimson, the colour of anger, down on to the board. And then I threw down a lump of lemon chrome and stamped on it.
And then I was ashamed of myself for being so childish, and anyway that is not the way one wastes good paint, which is expensive. So I went on with my Jars in a Window, feeling tired and sad.
But you see, it meant that the board on the floor wasn't entirely an accident. Some kind of emotional purpose had gone into it. Which is what the action painters claim. And perhaps Garrard had felt it — perhaps it does communicate...
Leila doesn't know about this.
So now what shall I do? What a thing to find lying in wait for you on your return from taking a white-collar job at eleven pounds a week. Because this board is big, forty inches by fifty. Even at my present prices, I shouldn't sell for under three hundred, Garrard knows that. I could probably get four out of him. And I can't paint him thirty more for an exhibition.
I could, of course. I could paint six by this evening and show them to him tomorrow.
And they might be very interesting and surprising if they conveyed the mixture of emotions I feel at this moment.
Theodore Dreiser, the great American progressive writer, was born in a poor family in 1871. He began to work for his living when he was sixteen. He had a number of jobs, and at one time was a newspaper reporter. As a reporter he gained a wide experience of life, which was a great help to him when he took up novel-writing.
Dreiser's literary career started in 1900 when "Sister Carrie" was published. In this novel and also in his later works, the writer exposed the true nature of American "democracy"
Dreiser was deeply impressed by the Great October Socialist Revolution. In 1927—28 he visited the Soviet Union and from that time on was a true friend to our country. In 1945, at the age of 74, he joined the Communist Party of the USA.
Dreiser died in 1945.
The passage below comes from "The Financier" Frank Cowperwood at thirteen is shown as a boy who is already fully aware of the power of money. Later on he becomes a typical capitalist who stops at nothing to become rich and powerful.

Buttonwood Street, Philadelphia, where Frank Cowperwood spent the first ten years of his life, was a lovely place for a boy to live in. There were mainly red brick houses there with small marble steps leading up to the front doors. There were trees in the street — a lot of them. Behind each house there was a garden with trees and grass and sometimes flowers.
The Cowperwoods, father and mother, were happy with their children. Henry Cowperwood, the father of the family, started life as a bank clerk, but when Frank, his elder son, was ten, Henry Cowperwood became a teller at the bank.
As his position grew more responsible, his business connections increased. He already knew a number of rich businessmen who dealt with the bank where he worked. The brokers knew him as representing a well-known film and considered him to be a most reliable person.
Young Cowperwood took an interest in his father's progress. He was quite often allowed to come to the bank on Saturdays, when he would watch with great interest the quick exchange of bills. He wanted to know where all the different kinds of money came from, and what the men did with all the money they received. His father, pleased at his interest, was glad to explain, so that even at this early age — from ten to fifteen — the boy gained a wide knowledge of the condition of the country financially. He was also interested in stocks and bonds, and he learned that some stocks and bonds were not even worth the paper they were written on, and others were worth much more than their face value showed.
At home also he listened to considerable talk of business and financial adventure.
Frank realized that his father was too honest, too careful. He often told himself that when he grew up, he was going to be a broker, or a financier, or a banker, and do some of the risky things he so often used to hear about.
Just at this time there came to the Cowperwoods an uncle, Seneca Davis, who had not appeared in the life of the family before.
Henry Cowperwood was pleased at the arrival of this rather rich relative, for before that Seneca Davis had not taken much notice of Henry Cowperwood and his family.
This time, however, he showed much more interest in the Cowperwoods, particularly in Frank.
"How would you like to come down to Cuba and be a planter, my boy?" he asked him once.
"I am not so sure that I'd like to," replied the boy.
"Well, that's frank enough. What have you against it?"
"Nothing, except that I don't know anything about it."
"What do you know?" The boy smiled, "Not very much, I guess."
"Well, what are you interested in?"
"Money."
He looked at Frank carefully now. There was something in the boy ... no doubt of it.
"A smart boy!" he said to Henry, his brother-in-law. "You have a good family."
Uncle Seneca became a frequent visitor to the house and took an increasing interest in Frank.
"Keep in touch with me," he said to his sister one day. "When that boy gets old enough to find out what he wants to do, I think I'll help him to do it." She told him she was very grateful. He talked to Frank about his studies, and found that the boy took little interest in books or most of the subjects he had to take at school.
"I like book-keeping and mathematics," he said. "I want to get out and get to work, though. That's what I want to do."
"You're very young, my son," his uncle said. "You're only how old now? Fourteen?"
"Thirteen."
"Well, you can't leave school much before sixteen. You'll do better if you stay until seventeen or eighteen. It can't do you any harm. You won't be a boy again."
"I don't want to be a boy. I want to get to work."
"Don't go too fast, son. You'll be a man soon enough. You want to be a banker, don't you?"
"Yes. sir."
"Well, when the time comes, if everything is all right and you've behaved well and you still want to, I'll help you get a start in business. If you are going to be a banker, you must work with some good company a year or so. You'll get a good training there. And, meantime, keep your health and learn all you can."
And with these words he gave the boy a ten-dollar gold piece with which to start a bank-account.
Once a rich Englishwoman called Mrs Johnson decided to have a birthday party. She invited a lot of guests and a singer. The singer was poor, but he had a very good voice.
The singer got to Mrs Johnson's house at exactly six o'clock as he had been asked to do, but when he went in, he saw through a door that the dining-room was already full of guests, who were sitting round a big table in the middle of the room. The guests were eating, joking, laughing, and talking loudly. Mrs Johnson came out to him, and he thought she was going to ask him to join them, when she said, "We're glad, sir, that you have come. You will be singing after dinner, I'll call you as soon as we're ready to listen to you. Now will you go into the kitchen and have dinner, too, please?"
The singer was very angry, but said nothing. At first he wanted to leave Mrs Johnson's house at once, but then he changed his mind and decided to stay and teach her and her rich guests a good lesson. When the singer went into the kitchen, the servants were having dinner, too. He joined them. After dinner, the singer thanked everybody and said, "Well, now I'm going to sing to you, my good friends." And he sang them some beautiful songs.
Soon Mrs Johnson called the singer.
"Well, sir, we're ready."
"Ready?" asked the singer. "What are you ready for?"
"To listen to you," said Mrs Johnson in an angry voice.
"Listen to me? But I have already sung, and I'm afraid I shan't be able to sing any more tonight."
"Where did you sing?"
"In the kitchen. I always sing for those I have dinner with.

W.S. Maugham (1874—1965) is a well-known English master of a psychological novel.
A PIECE OF ADVICE
Part 1
It is a dangerous thing to order the lives of others and I have often wondered at the self-confidence of the politicians, reformers and suchlike who are prepared to force upon their fellows measures that must alter their manners, habits, and points of view. I have always hesitated to give advice, for how can one advise another how to act unless one knows that other as well as one knows himself? Heaven knows. I know little enough of myself: I know nothing of others. We can only guess at the thoughts and emotions of our neighbours. Each one of us is a prisoner in a solitary tower and he communicates with the other prisoners, who form mankind, by conventional signs that have not quite the same meaning for them as for himself.
And life, unfortunately, is something that you can lead but once; mistakes are often irreparable and who am I that I should tell this one and that how he should lead it? Life is a difficult business and I have found it hard enough to make my own a complete and rounded thing; I have not been tempted to teach my neighbour what he should do with his. But there are men who flounder at the journey's start, the way before them is confused and hazardous and on occasion, however unwillingly, I have been forced to point the finger of fate. Sometimes men have said to me, what shall I do with my life? and I have seen myself for a moment wrapped in the dark cloak of Destiny.
Part 2
Once I know that I advised well.
I was a young man, and 1 lived in a modest apartment in London near Victoria Station. Late one afternoon, when I was beginning to think that I had worked enough for that day, I heard a ring at the bell. I opened the door to a total stranger. He asked me my name; I told him. He asked if he might come in.
"Certainly." 130
I led him into my sitting-room and begged him to sit down. He seemed a trifle embarrassed. I offered him a cigarette and he had some difficulty in lighting it without letting go off his hat. When he had satisfactorily achieved this feat I asked him if I should not put it on a chair for him. He quickly did this and while doing it dropped his umbrella.
"I hope you don't mind my coming to see you like this," he said. "My name is Stephens and I am a doctor. You're in the medical, I believe?"
"Yes, but I don't practise."
"No, I know. I've just read a book of yours about Spain and I wanted to ask you about it."
"It's not a very good book, I'm afraid." "The fact remains that you know something about Spain and there's no one else I know who does. And I thought perhaps you wouldn't mind giving me some information." "I shall be very glad."
He was silent for a moment. He reached out for his hat and holding it in one hand absent-mindedly stroked it with the other. I surmised that it gave him confidence.
"I hope you won't think it very odd for a perfect stranger to talk to you like this." He gave an apologetic laugh. "I'm not going to tell you the story of my life."
When people say this to me I always know that it is precisely what they are going to do. I do not mind. In fact I rather like it.
"I was brought up by two old aunts. I've never been anywhere. I've never done anything. I've been married for six years. I have no children. I'm a medical officer at the Camberwell Infirmary. I can't stick it any more."
There was something very striking in the short, sharp sentences he used. They had a forcible ring. I had not given him more than a cursory glance, but now I looked at him with curiosity. He was a little man, thick-set and stout, of thirty perhaps; with a round red face from which shone small, dark and very bright eyes. His black hair was cropped close to a bullet-shaped head. He was dressed in a blue suit a good deal the worse for wear. It was baggy at the knees and the pockets bulged untidily.
"You know what the duties are of a medical officer in an infirmary. One day is pretty much like another. And that's all I've got to look forward to for the rest of my life. Do you think it's worth it?"
"It's a means of livelihood," I answered.
"Yes. I know. The money's pretty good."
"I don't exactly know why you've come to me."
"Well, I wanted to know whether you thought there would be any chance for an English doctor in Spain?"
"Why Spain?"
"I don't know, I just have a fancy for it."
"It's not like Carmen, you know."
"But there's sunshine there, and there's good wine, and there's colour, and there's air you can breathe. Let me say what I have to say straight out. I heard by accident that there was no English doctor in Seville. Do you think I could earn a living there? Is it madness to give up a good safe job for an uncertainty?"
"What does your wife think about it?"
"She's willing."
"It's a great risk."
"I know. But if you say take it, I will; if you stay where you are, I'll stay."
He was looking at me intently with those bright dark eyes of his and I knew that he meant what he said I reflected for a moment.
"Your whole future is concerned: you must decide for yourself. But this I can tell you: if you don't want money but are content to earn just enough to keep body and soul together, then go. For you will lead a wonderful life."
He left me, I thought about him for a day or two, and then forgot. The episode passed completely from my memory.
Part 3 Many years later, fifteen at least, I happened to be in Seville and having some trifling; indisposition asked the hotel porter whether there was an English doctor in the town. He said there was and gave me the address. I took a cab and as I drove up to 132
the house a little fat man came out of it. He hesitated when he caught sight of me.
"Have you come to see me?" he said. "I'm the English
doctor."
I explained my errand and he asked me to come in. He lived in an ordinary Spanish house, with a patio, and his consulting room which led out of it littered with papers, books, medical appliances, and lumber. The sight of it would have startled a squeamish patient. We did our business and then I asked the doctor what his fee was. He shook his head and smiled.
"There's no fee."
"Why on earth not?"
"Don't you remember me? Why, I'm here because of something you said to me. You changed my whole life for me. I'm Stephens."
I had not the least notion what he was talking about. He reminded me of our interview, he repeated to me what we had said, and gradually, out of the night, a dim recollection of the incident came back to me.
"I was wondering if I'd ever see you again," he said, "I was wondering if ever I'd have a chance of thanking you for all you've done for me."
"It's been a success then?"
I looked at him. He was very fat now and bald, but his eyes twinkled gaily and his fleshy, red face bore an expression of perfect good-humour. The clothes he wore, terribly shabby they were, had been made obviously by a Spanish tailor and his hat was the wide-brimmed sombrero of the Spaniard. He looked to me as though he knew a good bottle of wine when he saw it. He had a dissipated though entirely sympathetic, appearance. You might have hesitated to let him remove your appendix, but you could not have imagined a more delightful creature to drink a glass of wine with.
"Surely you were married?" I asked.
"Yes. My wife didn't like Spain, she went back to Camberwell, she was more at home there."
"Oh, I'm sorry for that."
His black eyes flashed a bacchanalian smile. He really had somewhat the look of a young Silenus.
"Life is full of compensations", he murmured.
The words were hardly out of his mouth when a Spanish woman, no longer in her first youth, but still boldly and voluptuously beautiful, appeared at the door. She spoke to him in Spanish, and I could not fail to perceive that she was the mistress of the house.
As he stood at the door to let me out he said to me: "You told me when last I saw you that if I came here I should earn just enough money to keep body and soul together, but that I should lead a wonderful life. Well, I want to tell you that you were right. Poor I have been and poor I shall always be, but by heaven I've enjoyed myself. I wouldn't exchange the life I've had with that of any king in the world."
